Websites are usually divided into two conceptual components - the front end and the back end. The _front end_ of a website specifies the HTML, CSS, and JavaScript that should be sent back to the client for any given request. The _back end_ of a website does all the website's actual thinking.

To understand exactly how the front end and back end work, we need to first understand the difference between static and dynamic web pages.  A _static_ web page is a web page that never changes its contents unless the source code is modified. For example, most companies have an _about_ page that never changes unless they go and actually edit the HTML for the page. In contrast, a _dynamic_ web page is a page whose structure always remains the same but whose contents / information change.  Your Facebook timeline is a good example of a dynamic page. When you visit your friends' pages, you see their timelines, but the general structure of the timeline is always the same.  In this case, the _front end_ specifies this general structure of timelines on Facebook, while the _back end_ figures out what data to use to populate it based on which page is being viewed.

The front end's structure specification is comprised of 3 basic components - HTML, CSS, and JavaScript. These are like the skeleton, skin, and muscle of a website. The HTML specifies the very core structure. The CSS specifies the styling the structure should use. The JavaScript specifies anything special the web page can do. But the real thinking to determine what content is sent along with the page's structure is all done by the back end.
